# Inference in an Authorship Problem; Mosteller, F. and Wallace, D.L., 1963

## [Paper](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2283270); Tags: #authorship-attribution #bayesian-techniques

### Abridged Summary
This paper provides a comparision of discrimination methods using techniques based strongly on Bayes' theorem to solve the authorship problem of *The Federalist* papers; and lays the groundwork for handling authorship attribution. Word counts are treated as the variables for discrimination, resembling roughly to the bag-of-words approach, but based on a handful of selected features rather than treating every word as a feature. Authorship attribution makes good use out of filler words—since a topic in question heavily influences the vocabulary—as they provide more stable rates than topical nouns as *war* for example. While the paper using baysenian reasoning, their models resemble that of an ensemble naive Bayes models. 

> Smoothing techniques were not used to handle low frequency words, which lead to a 0 probability. Additionally, another weakness was the inability to seriously handle contextual words. Further study is needed.

Overall the paper is an interesting usecase of treating function words and provides another resource to creatively do feature selection. Pronouns and auxiliary words were recognized to be contextual; the conclusion being function words should not be underestimated. The results of the paper also provide remarks on conflating classes that are not clearly discriminated by the classifier. 
