# Gemini: A Natural Language System for Spoken-Language Understanding*; Dowding et al., 1993

## [Paper](https://aclanthology.org/P93-1008/); Tags: #natural-language-system #rule-based #speech-recognition #spoken-language-disambiguation

### Introduction
Gemini, a natural language understanding system, is developed for spoken-language understanding. **The author notes a difference between text processing and spoken language.** A spoken language system is required to be both robust and as constrained as possible. The system is intended to provide a sensible interpretation, irregardless of performance errors from the speaker, or recognizition errors from a speech recognizer. Therefore language constraints are required for a speech recognizer to detect a string not in the language (i.e., not a sentence in English). In order to limit overgeneration but also extend the language analysis to certain patterns of spoken utterances and specific performance errors, the parser must first impose as many language constraints as possible for utterances before the recognizer.

Processing starts in layers when syntactic, semantic, and lexical rules have been applied by a **bottom-up chart parser**. A second ***utterance*** parser (i.e., set of syntactic and semantic rules) is applied to the previous output and produce an acceptable intrepreation. Additionally, a component to capture and correct certain disfluences is applied instead. A parse is then judged based off a set of parse preferences to be used for subsequent processing for the final quasi logical form, which is used in a query-answering system of the likes of Prolog.

### Grammar Formalism
I chose this paper because it has a piece on limiting overgeneration and details a basic building block of grammar formalism, *viz.* a category with feature constraints, or extra arguments found in a definite clause grammar. See parser for more.

Unification Formalism:
- typed unification; each feature has a declared set of possible values
- (?) type inheritance; more explicit!
- Constituent phrases, or categories (np, vp, etc) are not distinguished categorically but rather based off their feature bundles (attribute-value structures)

### Parser
Gemini uses a bottom-up chart parser (**study here!**) with some limited contraints applied. It appears that the idea of dynamic-programming (i.e. subsumption of parses) helps limit overgeneration with a general edge chosen by the parser.  

### Other 
Marked syntax rules: where's my head?
- Disprefered rule: *book those three flights to Boston*
- Context: *Three of our clients have sufficient credit*

Heuristics for a shift-reduce parser:
- Minimal Attachment and Right Association
- Right Association: In a shift-reduce conflict, prefer shifts to reduces.
- Minimal Attachment: In a reduce-reduce conflict,
prefer longer reduces to shorter reduces.

### Conclusion
The paper describes an approach to limt overgeneration through interleaved syntactic and semantic processing and focuses on the systems between parsing and speech recognition. Well-written paper. Good to visit if these topics come by.
